Zarur! Yahan ek structured story hai GitLab ke liye jo "Purging Schedule" feature ko describe karti hai. Isme Description, API details, aur Data Flow tino parts include hain.


---

🔥 GitLab Story: Purging Schedule Implementation

📌 Title: Implement Purging Scheduler for Expired Data


---

📖 Description:

We are implementing a scheduled purging mechanism to remove expired or irrelevant data from the system to optimize storage and performance. This will be handled in a multi-layered architecture involving a scheduler, service layer, DAO, and database queries.

This purging will run on a defined time interval (e.g., daily at midnight) and delete/archive data older than a specific threshold (e.g., 30 days).


---

🔧 API Details (If any external/internal APIs involved):

Method	Endpoint	Description

POST	/admin/purge/trigger	(Optional Admin API) Triggers the purge manually
GET	/admin/purge/status	(Optional) Returns last run timestamp and purge stats


> Note: These APIs are optional and primarily for monitoring/debugging. The main execution is done via the internal scheduler.




---

🔁 Data Flow:

1. Scheduler (e.g., Quartz/Spring Scheduler):

Configured to run based on CRON expression.

Calls PurgeService.startPurge() method on schedule.



2. Service Layer:

Business logic to decide what needs to be purged.

Calculates date threshold (e.g., current date - 30 days).

Calls corresponding DAO methods to fetch and delete data.



3. DAO Layer:

Contains queries to:

Identify purgeable records.

Delete or archive them.


Uses batch queries for performance.



4. SQL/Queries:

Sample:

DELETE FROM session_logs WHERE created_at < :thresholdDate;

Proper indexing ensured for performance.

Logs maintained for number of rows affected and errors (if any).





---

✅ Outcome:

Reduces database size and improves performance.

Keeps data within retention policy.

Logs available for each purge cycle for audit/debug.



---

📝 Note for Dev Team:

Unit + Integration tests needed.

Consider feature flag for enabling/disabling purge.

Logging must include:

Start time

End time

Number of records purged

Errors (if any)




---

Agar aap chahte ho ke yeh English-Hindi mix mein ho ya sirf Hindi mein likha jaye to main woh bhi kar sakta hoon. Let me know if you'd like a diagram or actual class structure as well.

